The film, Mad Max: Fury Road, directed by George Miller, is set in a post-apocalyptic wasteland where survival is the primary goal. The film follows Max on his journey for survival in this broken world. The film shows us about survivalist behaviours bringing out the worst in humanity, but genuine love and concern can bring out the best as we follow Max on his journey for survival in this broken world.\n\nGeorge Miller shows the idea of survivalist behaviours bringing out the worst of humanity in the opening scene of the film. We first hear Max’s voice over as he says “Mankind has gone rogue, terrorising itself,” as well as, “A man reduced to a single instinct: Survive.” This dialogue combines with the wide shot of Max staring into the distance of an empty, barren world, symbolising his loneliness now he is alone. Miller also uses the visual technique of colour-grading with vibrant orange tones to emphasise just how uninhabitable, barren and chaotic the world really is. As Max is looking into the distance, he hears a voice in his head, present of a girl he was meant to save, but didn’t. She says “You swear me that to help—” You promised to help us, and as she says it, we see Max begin to shake, showing us how this trauma has a hold over both his mind and his body. These techniques used in this establishing scene of Max symbolise the loneliness of the world as it shows us how Max is a ‘lone wolf’ focused on his own survival. The mise-en-scène of Max, the car and the empty background also helps to emphasise and symbolise how Max only cares about his own survival as it is combined with the dialogue of the girl in Max’s head before he quickly jumps in his car and speeds away, running from the guilt of not saving the girl so that he can stay focused on his own survival.\n\nWe see another example of “survivalist behaviour” bringing out the worst of humanity in the scene where we are introduced to Immortan Joe, the villain of the film. In this scene, Immortan Joe is giving a speech to the citizens of The Citadel. Miller uses high angle, over the shoulder camera shots to show how Immortan Joe is above everyone else and to symbolise his power and dominance over the citizens. He combines this with low angle point of view shots from the view of the people below, to show how high up Joe is, again, symbolising his power and superiority over the people. Immortan Joe then says “I am your true redeemer.” as he turns on the water, letting it gush out so the citizens can drink it and as this happens we hear happy, almost hopeful music begin to play. However, this music quickly stops as the water is turned off and we get a birds eye view camera shot of the citizens fighting each other for the water. These three film techniques show how Immortan Joe is indifferent to human suffering and cares only for himself and his power over others. It also symbolises the idea of survivalist behaviours bringing out the worst as we see a clear example of people being selfish and fighting each other for the resources they need to survive, not caring who needs it more or who they're hurting. These scenes are a symbol of how survivalist behaviours can bring out the worst in humanity through great selfishness, and having no empathy for others.\n\nAs the film goes on, Miller begins to show us how having genuine love and concern for others can bring out the best in humanity and fix a broken world. We see this idea developed in the scene where Max is again, standing alone, staring into the distance, hearing the voices in his head. However this time, instead of running from his trauma, he uses it to do the right thing by joining Furiosa and the group again and helping them take down Immortan Joe. This juxtaposition of the two parallel scenes serves as a symbol of how having concern for others can bring out the best in humanity as it shows how Max is now willing to risk his own life for the people he has begun to care about and be actually help them rather than run and continue to be a lone wolf who only cares about his own survival.\n\nTo further prove this idea, we see another parallel scene where after Max and Furiosa have killed Immortan Joe, they give the citizens water. In this scene we see birds eye view shots of the people drinking the water, this time without fighting for it and we also see symbolic framing of everyone together, rather than individual, separate shots. This combines with the hopeful, happy music that doesn’t stop playing this time. Symbolises the idea of how having genuine love and empathy for others can bring out the best in humanity and brings hope that a broken world can be fixed.\n\nWe can see this idea in the film of survivalist behaviour bringing out the worst in humanity and genuine love and concern bringing out the best can relate to the Syrian crisis in 2011 when Zaatari Refugee camp during the Syrian Civil Wars in 2011 as we can see how the survivalist behaviours during hardship can bring out greedy and selfishness during the wars but we also see how empathy and genuine human connection can bring out the best as we see the residents of the camp built schools and hospitals, turning it into a society which symbolises how even in a broken world, genuine love and concern can bring the best out of humanity.